Taken all the greatness out and filled it with garbage. Where she became great by working and training hard, proving she as good as any man. Replaced by magic and crap.
I think if I explained everything that I hated about this movie, I would be here forever, so I'll just list a couple of the things that I hated most. (Just for context, I am ethnically Chinese.)

1) Mulan doesn't resonate with me as a character at all. She feels like a hollow shell of the 1998 Mulan and has no emotions or personality. The most memorable scene for me in the 1998 Mulan was the scene with the song 'Reflection' and it was incredibly moving and emotional. In this version, I felt nothing when I saw it. Mulan was just so bland and boring in that scene.

2) Lovable characters like Mushu have been removed for some reason. (To make it more realistic? To cut down on the plot?) A magic CGI phoenix has been introduced but even after watching this entire movie, I don't understand the point of this addition. The phoenix contributes nothing to the plot and unlike Mushu, doesn't have a lovable personality (or any personality at all).

3) The action sequences were awful and seemed to me like they had been designed to fit a 5 year old's interpretation of 'cool'. This meant that they were actually extremely cringey and very over the top. There were moments where the characters were suspended for weirdly long periods in the air during jumps which made it very offputting to watch.

4) The repetition of honour, loyal, brave and true throughout the film. Yes these are important concepts in Chinese culture but this doesn't mean they need to be repeated every few minutes. If someone were to play a drinking game every time these words were mentioned then they'd probably end up in hospital from alcohol poisoning. Imagine if someone created an American movie where the characters kept saying 'freedom' and 'the american dream' in every other sentence like a broken record player. Although these are important American ideals, that doesn't mean anyone wants to watch a movie where they are repeated a million times. The 3 virtues should have been introduced into Mulan with more subtlety and grace to make it actually palatable to the viewer.

5) I disliked the addition of Xianniang. While I feel like her character could have been a cool concept, the execution was poorly done. We don't see enough of her and her backstory to be able to connect with her and her interactions with Mulan were shallow and artificial. I also can't accept that she had a 2 minute conversation with Mulan in the palace and decided to give up her life for her. Of course, I am not a witch who has been ostracised my entire life, so I have a different perspective from her, but I could not understand her decision at all. It feel like the director suddenly realised that the movie was too long and rushed to kill her off so we could finish the movie in time.

6) Mulan's makeup during the matchmaking scene. I have no idea why they decided to give her such garish makeup, especially since none of the other girls at the matchmaker's looked like that. At the end of the movie, we return to the matchmaker's room where another girl is meeting the matchmaker and she doesn't have such awful makeup. Was this an attempt to be historically accurate? I understand that there are difference between our modern concept of beauty and the historical ideal, but I think they could have tried harder to find a balance between these two. There are plenty of Chinese historical dramas that manage this; where the actresses look gorgeous to the modern eye even though they are dressed in the period style.

7) I was extremely excited about this movie because I loved the 1998 mulan. It was one of the only representations of Chinese culture that I saw in western media as a kid. It was an amazing movie and made me proud to be Chinese. But after watching this movie, I feel like I've watched a bad parody where Westerners make weird assumptions about Chinese culture that I, as a Chinese person, can't comprehend.

8) The magic chi. I can't even properly articulate my anger and confusion about this. I think that Mushu and many of the original songs were cut because they were unrealistic, but this magic chi business is completely unrealistic too! (for the record, chinese people cannot turn into birds and fly.) Mulan doesn't manage to save china through the power of hard work, perseverance and determination... she does it through this special handwavy magic energy

sorry about how long this review has become but i felt pretty strongly against this movie. Obviously other people will have different opinions to me, since we all have different likes/dislikes and come from different backgrounds. If you enjoyed this movie, I'm glad you did, but unfortunately I do not share your views.

I'd recommend everyone watch the 2009 Mulan instead because that's everything this movie tried to be and failed at. The 2009 movie stayed true to the story of Mulan and is an absolute masterpiece in comparison to this in my opinion.
In the original Mulan is a normal girl who does amazing things through hard work. In this one she like Chinese Neo or something and has magical powers which kinda messes up the message.

But the main problem with this version is that it's just cringy and boring.
Well... this is what happens when you give 200 million dollars budget and a great cast to the wrong director! Or probably it was the producer... You could at least give us some nice soundtrack... but noooo, you had to destroy it all at once
"Do you believe they are actually picking a Chinese girl to play the role as Mulan in the new real-person Disney remake movie?" I can still remember the question from an ABC girl and the excitement on her face when she was asking the question back in 2017. And after all these years of waiting, it turns out to be a complete disappointment.

A 3-star is probably the best rating that I can give here. Yifei Liu is absolutely the ideal cast for the character of Mulan. It looks astonishing on that reflection of Mulan in the sword poster. And that wins the movie one of the stars. Some of the scenery in the movie are beautiful especially with IMAX 3D. Mountains and skyline of the capital city are breathtaking, which earns the second star. It is probably a half star if not with IMAX. As for the third, since IMDB won't allow me to give a ZERO star for the worst movie of all time, it is basically a buy-2-and-get-1-for-free star.

Mulan's story has been told to all the Chinese of their childhood for over a thousand years. And thanks for Disney, the story is told to all the world with their great cartoon movie in 1998. The spirit of Mulan has been encouraging generations of people, including her bravery, loyalty and most importantly her filial responsibility. (Well, that's true, Chinese people thinks highly of their filial duty.) However, all the spirits above are but of words engraved on the sword, and the director really wants to tell that little story about a girl seeking for her true-self, which could be any other story but Mulan's. Despite of that, the whole story line is not logical, well, at all. * Avoiding to face the true-self as a female? Is that true? * Hiding family Kungfu from the troop? Is that necessary? * Taking off all armor and helmet to run for a war fight? Cannot be more logical. * A troop of well trained soldiers counting the Emperor's life on and only on a little girl? Best strategy ever. * Such an easily provoked Emperor that would rather get himself into a one on one fight to a berserker? Trump wouldn't do that for sure.

If you want to make a good Chinese history based movie, the least thing you have to do is to do some real study on it. But all I can see from this movie is prejudice from westerners to Chinese traditional culture and a soulless Disney drama. * Praying to phoenix for safety and peace? We don't ever do that in China. * Concubines with pale white faces and bloody red cheek makeups? That's what Japanese Geishas do. * A mind-controlling or transforming witch? Okay, Valar Morghulis. * Phoenix Vs Eagle metaphor? What's that for? Basically, not a single culture is presented precisely from where they come in this movie. If you can read Chinese, you can learn more mistakes that are made about the culture, history timelines, etc, where the ratings goes all the way down to 4.9 after 3 days of the release. If you can't, don't bother, and just remember the mistakes are much more than you can even imagine. The director successfully made a contribution to alienate the understanding between the westerners and Chinese. Westerners may think this another movie that is made for Chinese in order to please the Chinese market, while Chinese people are actually feeling INSULTED by all these cultural bias. Niki Caro shows us a great example how to make a movie and offend both side of the audience.

In the original Mulan folklore, there are no characters like Mushu, the cricket, and all the funny souls of ancestors. But who would possibly complain about a cute funny dragon especially when it comes from Disney? But when a silent, helpless and do-not-know-what-to-do phoenix is taking Mushu's place, it just let people doubt if this 2020 remake is actually a Disney movie. Besides, Mulan is made a superhero with great talent when she was very young. And of course, a heroine cannot have a boyfriend, potential one, as a general or something. That adaption sounds not feminist at all.

All in all, this movie is simply a waste of a good legend, passion from Disney fans, 2 hours of your life probably, and above all, 200 million dollars. Good job Niki Caro!
Boring, some poor sfx and the witch is totally unnecessary. Why didn't she just go to the emperor and kill him? I found the actress playing Mulan unconvincing. She was so tiny, how were we to believe she passed as a boy and fought the way she did? Disney should just stop with the remakes and try and make something new. Or is Hollywood terrified of this?
I'm not sure what movie I was shown. It was titled after one of my absolute favorite movies, but is NOTHING like it. The movie has no Mushu, but instead replaces him with a silent bird. There is no musical numbers, and we never get down to business. The edits are terrible and make it look as if "Mulan" can be at 2 places at once. And I am waiting for someone to explain the woman that turns into a bird.
This is probably the worst movie I have seen in the last two years. And mind that Mulan still is one of my favourite cartoon movie, so thats quite something to achieve.

Let me put it simple, every time the script diverged from the cartoon it was for the worst. They left out the best parts and added the most ridiculous nonsense you can imagine. 
* The Witch: Why add this character? How lazy do you have to be as a screenwriter to only be able to make the story "work" by adding a character that can morph into any other character? Betrayal? Complicated motives? Multilayered characters? No - it was just the witch who took over the Kings servant.
* The Phoenix: Absolutely useless trope. I would argue that the story of Mushu in the cartoon was written better that the whole Mulan 2020 script. This dumb phoenix from the ashes metaphor has been done a thousand times, please for gods sake can these people have one original idea?
* Loyal, brave, and true. These three words appear like 10 Times through the movie yet absolutely nothing comes from it that wouldn't naturally appear in a Mulan story. Its like making a Harry Potter movie and have the word "Magic" appear on every item. Yeah we know, it's a movie about bravery - we have all seen the cartoon.
* Scenery: The landscapes are beautiful, if this would be a documentary. Did anyone tell the director that the landscapes in a movie need to make sense? I felt like I'm watching an old spice comercial: I'm on top of a mountain, now I'm in the desert, look back to me I am now inside a vulcano.


In Summary the movie had three very strong virtues. But I'm not talking about "loyal, brave, and true" the three words that come to my mind are "ridiculous, dumb and lazy". So yeah, don't watch, don't buy. Just watch the cartoon another time.
Everything that made Mulan great has been dropped the charming side characters, the humour, the character development all of it in favour of this bland cringey Cliche be yourself girl power lunacy. Just don't waste the 30$ on this believe me you will thank me later.
Disney can't make anything original same old story of remaking classic animation in live action didn't paid off. Bad action, choreography, screenplay is very dull and boring. Changed history of characters to make movie work. Really bad action and costumes look cheap. I was lucky I didn't paid 30 dollars watch it at friends place. Felt like walking out halfway thru the movie.
This movie is garbage. Not even close to the original classic animation. Utter waste of time.
No music because when charging into war, "you don't press pause and start singing cause it isn't realistic" says Niki. Yet, in one of the most emotional and amazing war scenes in Lord of the Rings Return of the King starts with Pippin singing as Faramir charges towards the Orcs - and that film won 11 Academy Awards.
Apparently Mulan has super powers now and is the greatest warrior from the get go. This movie is corny and laughable. It was hard to root for mulan because her character was so boring.
This is one High Quality disappointment. Inferior to the original Disney Animation in every way conceivable. Dishonor on you! Dishonor on your cow!
A Chinese girl disguises herself as a male warrior in order to save her father...this is mainly the plot and Nothing Else!

The new wave of - Marvel/Disney and DC's - Origins and reboots are such a drag, easily spotted as a cash grabber and what's worse is they lack the means to fool the average audience to think that there's a point there, with out any care for a solid plot, interesting story telling, decent acting or even a POINT for telling a story to being with. Just colorful CGI and wrap it up and throw it out there as people eats everything big companies throw at them. Mulan follows the same disfigured recipe for failure with a boring story, lame non relatable characters, disfigured shadow of the old classic and a drag when it comes to acting.

Overall a pointless continuous disaster for the money driven reboots that is not worth wasting time.
Artemis Fowl then and now Mulan... If there is any award for being expertly mediocre
Just stop. This Mulan is devoid of all the fun and charm of the original. I don't want to waste too many words on this, just don't bother watching it.
They turned Mulan into a Rey clone; that's all you need to know. Why bother creating a flawed and vulnerable character that gains the viewer's respect through hard work, perseverance and resourcefulness when you can just tack on magical plot-solving heritage and thus cut out the middleman entirely? Worked well with Rey, didn't it?

Also, remember how in the original, Shan Yu didn't care one bit that Mulan was a woman? All that mattered to him was that she was responsible for destroying his army and he took her as seriously as any other enemy. Well it would seem that was just way too progressive for modern audiences because Mr. Khan over here can't go 5 minutes without reminding you how much he hates women...because, you know, overcoming segregation matters more than overcoming your enemy through skill and ingenuity.

A 200 million dollar female power fantasy -- that's what this is.
Honestly, it felt like a generic Chinese fantasy martial arts movie with a mediocre story line and shallow character development. You can't include Mushu because you want it to be more realistic/traditional but you can add a shapeshifter into the plot? What? There's no Disney magic like the original Mulan (1998) that was beloved by fans. No humor, no songs, or the Disney feel to it. If it didn't have the name "Mulan" as its title then it would have been just another mediocre movie at best, forgettable but not terrible. But for a Live Action remake of the beloved classic "Mulan", absolute trash. Save your $30 and 2 hours of your life that you'll never get back. I mean I don't know how else to convey it but... man was it awful.
Really? This storyline isn't the same. I had read articles before the movie came out but it really is a POS. Don't waste your time... really... laugh so you don't cry! Shame on Disney, shame on anyone that thought this live action would be a good idea and well received by the audience / true Disney fans!!!!!!!
Not as expected frm Disney. Too much hype and less entertaining!
It was bad cringey and boring at the same time. it felt like a big budget overscaled chinese film failure I dont know what the hell Disney was thinking during the production. so not much of a big disappointment because I wasn't too excited after watching the first trailer so I wasn't gonna watch it but I had to try it cause I loved the Original animation.. but still it was worst than I expected
An ill-conceived narrative mess that does not compare well to the 1998 animated Mulan. An insult to Chinese identity because someone decided to make Chinese actors deliver lines in English (to pander to western audience).

In an animation, it is fine to have Chinese characters speak English, because it is a story that does not seek to be "real", like a fairy tale. The audience will not be that bothered. The 1998 animated Mulan is an empowering "fairy tale" story with Chinese elements inspired by a folklore ballad.

When Disney decided to do a live action remake with production design that seems to be aiming for authenticity, the game changes. It is just wrong to force Chinese Actors that can speak Mandarin, to deliver lines (emotion) in English. Language is integral to one's way of thinking, one's personal identity, one's cultural heritage and social image. Forcing Chinese actors to speak English, like they don't have their own perfectly fine full-functioning language that is just as full of nuance and complex communication, is the Ultimate Disrespect to Chinese culture.

If they wanted 'authenticity' and to pander to Chinese audience, they should have done this live action remake in Mandarin, and dubbed into English (or subtitled) for western audience, and spent some money hiring Chinese scriptwriter, production staff, who will know the culture intrinsically. The acting would be better if the actors were allowed to use their native language. And from an authenticity viewpoint, it is odd to have a 'realistic' historical folklore Chinese drama in spoken English.

From the pander-to-the-western-audience viewpoint, they would have done better to do a shot-by-shot live remake, with all the music and beloved characters of the animated classic.
I hate live actions honestly and I think Disney it's over doing them. But Owell they are the ones with the cash. It's beautifull to look at with plenty of SGI but all the show means nothing. There is pathos and gravitas but they are pointless!!! It's a pointless movie when you have the animated version doesn't had much and all the waiting was for nothing. Plus paying 35$ on Disney plus for that?!??
Very poor movie, there are so many great Chinese action movies you could choose this is definitely not one of them. Honestly not sure what they were thinking I cringed the whole way through,very cheesy and not sure who it's catered towards as falls flat for both western and Chinese audiences. I gave it a three rating mainly because of the scenery, the script is bad, the action is very poor really don't bother it's just a weak movie.
